Add Terraform to Fabric E2E sample (#756)
Azure-Samples/modern-data-warehouse-dataops: e2e_samples/fabric_dataops_sample/README.md

  - `FABRIC_CAPACITY_ADMINS` is a comma-separated list of users and service principals that will be added as capacity admins to the newly created Fabric capacity. If you are using an existing capacity, you can leave this blank. But in that case, make sure that your account and the principal (service principal or managed identity) are [added as Capacity Administrators](https://learn.microsoft.com/fabric/admin/capacity-settings?tabs=fabric-capacity#add-and-remove-admins) to that capacity, as mentioned in the [pre-requisites](#pre-requisites).
  - Leave `ALDS_GEN2_CONNECTION_ID` blank for the first run. The creation of the Fabric connection to ADLS Gen2 is a manual step which is done after the deployment of the resources. Once the connection is manually created, the connection ID is then updated in the `.env` file and the script is run again. This time, the script will create the Lakehouse shortcut to your ALDS Gen2 storage account.

* For the following step you have 2 authentication options:

  1. **Managed Identity authentication** (Recommended as it does not require dealing with secrets)

>       - Create or use an existing Azure VM and assign it a Managed Identity. If you need to create a new VM, follow the instructions in the [Setting up an Azure VM for Authentication with Managed Identity](#optional-setting-up-an-azure-vm-for-authentication-with-managed-identity) section.

Reviewer: Should be resolved now.

      - Connect to the VM and open a bash shell
      - Authenticate to Azure using the VM Managed Identity
        ```bash
        az login --identity
        ```
      - Execute following steps from this authenticated shell

>   2. **Service Principal + Client Secret authentication** (Consider using [certificate credentials](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/microsoft/fabric/latest/docs/guides/auth_spn_cert) instead of secrets)

Reviewer 2: Lot of Markdown Linting Errors

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cc5fd9a4-47ad-4590-89b1-ee07d838dc64)

Reviewer: should be fixed now

      - [Create a secret](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/microsoft/fabric/latest/docs/guides/auth_spn_secret#creating-client-secret) for the service principal. If you are not permitted to create secrets, request the secret from the team responsible for secret management.
      - Update `.env` file with the `APP_CLIENT_ID` and `APP_CLIENT_SECRET` values.
      - Import the environment variables file and authenticate to Azure with Service Principal
        ```bash
        source .env
        az login --service-principal -u $APP_CLIENT_ID -p $APP_CLIENT_SECRET --tenant $TENANT_ID --allow-no-subscription
        ```
      - Execute following steps from this authenticated shell

* Review [setup-infra.sh](./infra/setup-infra.sh) script and see if you want to adjust the derived naming of variable names of Azure/Fabric resources. The Azure and Fabric resources are created using Terraform. The naming of the Azure resources is derived from the `BASE_NAME` environment variable. Please review the [main.tf](./infra/terraform/main.tf) file to understand the naming convention, and adjust it as needed.

> * Run the [setup-infra.sh](./infra/setup-infra.sh) script from the authenticed shell in the previous step to deploy the Azure and Fabric resources:

Reviewer: Fixed

  Also, note that the bash script calls a python script [setup_fabric_environment.py](./infra/scripts/setup_fabric_environment.py) to upload custom libraries to the Fabric environment.

* Once the deployment is complete, login to Fabric Portal and create a cloud connection to ADLS Gen2 based on the [documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-factory/connector-azure-data-lake-storage-gen2#set-up-your-connection-in-a-data-pipeline). Note down the 'Connection ID'.

  ![fetching-connection-id](./images/cloud-connection.png)

* Update the `ALDS_GEN2_CONNECTION_ID` variable in the `.env` file with the 'Connection ID' fetched above.

* From this step onward, you will need to authenticate using your user context. Authenticate **with user context** (required for the second run) and run the setup script again:

  ```bash
  source .env
  az config set core.login_experience_v2=off
  az login --tenant $TENANT_ID
  az config set core.login_experience_v2=on
  ./setup-infra.sh
  ```

>   This time, the script will create the Lakehouse shortcut to your ALDS Gen2 storage account. All previously deployed resources will remain unchanged. Fabric items whose REST APIs and terrafrom provider don't support service principal / managed identity authentication (i.e. data pipelines and others) will be deployed with user context authentication.

Reviewer: Fixed

## Cleaning up

> ## Frquently asked questions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Frequently asked questions
```

> ### Deploymeny related FAQs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deployment related FAQs
```

* Why is an existing resource group required? Why can't the script create one instead?

  This sample adheres to the principle of least privilege and aligns with enterprise practices, where the IT infrastructure or platform team creates the resource group and grants only the required permissions on that specific group. This approach avoids the need for subscription-level permissions

* How can I use a managed identity for authentication?

>   When using a user-assigned managed identity, you assign the managed identity to the "source" Azure Resouse, such as Virtual Machine (VM), Azure Function and such. Here are the instructions to setup up an Azure VM for authentication with managed identity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When using a user-assigned managed identity, you assign the managed identity to the "source" Azure Resource, such as Virtual Machine (VM), Azure Function and such. Here are the instructions to setup up an Azure VM for authentication with managed identity.
```

Reviewer: Changed in to "azure resources"

- Fabric Resources
  - Microsoft Fabric Workspace
  - Microsoft Fabric Lakehouse
  - Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 shortcut
  - Microsoft Fabric Environment
  - Microsoft Fabric Notebooks
  - Microsoft Fabric Data pipelines

## How to use the sample

### Pre-requisites

- An Entra user that can access Microsoft Fabric (Free license is enough).
- An Azure subscription with the following:
  - The `Microsoft.Fabric` [resource provider](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/resource-providers-and-types#register-resource-provider) has been registered on the Azure subscription.
  - A resource group to which your user should be granted [Contributor](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/privileged#contributor) and [User Access Administrator](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/privileged#user-access-administrator) privileged roles.
  - A [managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) OR a [service principal](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity-platform/app-objects-and-service-principals):

>     - If you **cannot** create a service principal on your own, request the creation of a service principal as per your organization's policy.

Reviewer 2: we need to add instructions on what API permissions needs to be granted to SP
else you get below error  ()
"│ GroupsClient.BaseClient.Get(): unexpected status 403 with OData error: Authorization_RequestDenied: Insufficient privileges to complete the operation."

Reviewer: Included

  - Request that a Fabric administrator grant the above service principal or managed identity permission to [use Fabric APIs](https://learn.microsoft.com/fabric/admin/service-admin-portal-developer#service-principals-can-use-fabric-apis).

>   - Grant the service principal or managed identity the `Contributor` and `User Access Administrator` privileged roles on the Azure resource group.

Reviewer 2: for "User access administrator", we may need to specify which conditions to 
E.g
Allow user to only assign selected roles to selected principals (fewer privileges) 

**Allow user to assign all roles except privileged administrator roles Owner, UAA, RBAC (Recommended) **

Allow user to assign all roles (highly privileged)

Reviewer: included

### Prerequisites

- A user account with elevated privileges, such as:
  - Ability to create service principals and Entra security groups.
  - Ability to create and manage Azure resources including Fabric capacity.

>   - [Microsoft Fabric admin](https://learn.microsoft.com/fabric/admin/microsoft-fabric-admin) role. As an alternative you can ask your Fabric admin to grant your service principal access to Fabric REST APIs. See step by step guide for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Microsoft Fabric admin](https://learn.microsoft.com/fabric/admin/microsoft-fabric-admin) role. As an alternative you can ask your Fabric admin to grant your service principal access to Fabric REST APIs. See [Setting up the Infrastructure](#setting-up-the-infrastructure) section for details.
```

- An Azure subscription.

>   - On your Azure subscription you should register the Microsoft.Fabric [resource provider](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/resource-providers-and-types#register-resource-provider).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Make sure that the `Microsoft.Fabric` [resource provider](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/resource-providers-and-types#register-resource-provider) is registered on the Azure subscription.
```

    ```bash
    cd ./modern-data-warehouse-dataops/e2e_samples/fabric_dataops_sample/infra
    ```
1. Create and/or configure your Service Principal [following the Microsoft Fabric Terraform provider instructions for authenticating with Service Principal and Client Secret](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/microsoft/fabric/latest/docs/guides/auth_spn_secret). 
   1. Make sure your Fabric Admin has enabled the Developer Setting [Service Principals can use Fabric APIs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/admin/service-admin-portal-developer#service-principals-can-use-fabric-apis) and your Service Principal is allowed to use Fabric APIs.
   1. Grant your Service Principal Contributor + User Access Administrator permissions on the Azure resource group (see pre-requisites).
   1. Create a secret and save it for the following step.

> 1. Rename the [.envtemplate](./.envtemplate) file to `.env` and fill in the necessary environment variables. Here is the detailed explanation of the environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Rename the [.envtemplate](./infra/.envtemplate) file to `.env` and fill in the necessary environment variables. Here is the detailed explanation of the environment variables:
```

    ```bash
    # Fabric TF provider env variables
    export FABRIC_TENANT_ID="The Entra ID (Azure AD Tenant Id) of your Fabric tenant"
    export FABRIC_CLIENT_ID="The Service Principal Client ID (App Id)"
    export FABRIC_CLIENT_SECRET="The Service Principal Client secret"

>     #

Reviewer: I think we need to review this list, the .env file doesn't have any of these variables defined.

Author: my bad! I forgot to commit the changes to the envtemplate file

Author: @promisinganuj I have now committed the `.envtemplate` file. The missing params (your comments below) are all in that env file. Please take a look and let me know

    # ... (more variables in the file)
    ```

    Leave `ALDS_GEN2_CONNECTION_ID` blank for the first run.

1. Import the environment variables file and authenticate to Azure with Service Principal
    ```bash
    source .env
    az login --service-principal -u $FABRIC_CLIENT_ID -p $FABRIC_CLIENT_SECRET --tenant $FABRIC_TENANT_ID
    ```

> 1. Review [setup-infra.sh](./infra/setup-infra.sh) script and see if you want to adjust the derived naming of variable names of Azure/Fabric resources.

Reviewer: The script needs to be reviewed for all the parameters passed. I will add specific comments in the script itself.

> 1. The Azure resources are created using Terraform. The naming of the Azure resources is derived from the `BASE_NAME` environment variable. Please review the [main.tf](./infra/terraform/main.tf) file to understand the naming convention, and adjust it as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Azure and Fabric resources are created using Terraform. The naming of the Azure resources is derived from the `BASE_NAME` environment variable. Please review the [main.tf](./infra/terraform/main.tf) file to understand the naming convention, and adjust it as needed.
```
